>> Melkey: Now we're actually
going to do an exercise.
So I'm gonna ask you guys to write some
code without me kind of yapping and
writing it for you.
So let's go here,
we're gonna make just a new directory,
we wanna call it exercise, okay?
Within exercise,
make a new file called exercise.go, okay?
Here we're gonna make
a package called exercise.
Again, we have a lot more freedom
now that we've made our own package.
And if you notice by my voice,
I'm gonna get a little more excited
because this is where I would assume
the training was gonna come off because we
have a lot more control with our go code.
We were all writing everything in
the main code, that is It's pretty rigid,
here we have a lot more freedom.
So here's the exercise,
I'm gonna read it out.
I think I'm gonna give some code.
But basically, we're gonna create,
this says a new main.go, but
exercise.go is fine.
I wanna make a falling RP game.
And I guess you can create this in your
main.go if you wanna execute this.
But basically I want you guys to create
a player struck that has a name and
inventory field.
I want you to create an item struct
that has a name and type field.
And I want these to have certain methods,
okay?
So I want these methods to
all be on the player struct.
I want method one to be pick up item.
It adds an item to a player's inventory.
DropItem removes the item
from an inventory by name.
And then use item, this one is,
you could hard code this depending
on what the item name is.
You can just do, let's say,
the item you pick up is a potion.
Using the potion, we can hard code,
if potion regain five health.
But you don't need to actually
have a player health bar,
you just can print differences
between your items.
Okay, so here I'm gonna paste
some just boiler plate code here.
>> Melkey: So this is kind of
the preliminary setup I think would be
appropriate, right?
We have an items truck,
a players truck and three methods.
So kind of already set up the the boulder
plate for those methods here.
Try it out if you don't get it,
honestly, that's not a big deal.
But yeah, explore it,
see how far you can go.
>> Melkey: So we left off by
trying out an exercise where
we basically are trying to mimic the very,
very simple functionality of an MMORPG or
something like that.
Where you have a player, an item, you can
pick items up, drop items and use items.
This is just an intended exercise for
us to get used to how things work in Go.
And so I'm going to quickly just show
the solutions for some of these here.
I'm not gonna spend too much time
exploring the intricacies of them.
We can revisit this at the end,
but we're gonna just simply show
how I personally implemented
these methods, right?
So for PickUpItem, all I really did was,
I know I have my p.Inventory,
so I'm gonna just quickly do import,
for me, PickUpItem.
I know I have my p.Inventory, and
I'm just going to append the item
that I pick up into my inventory.
And add this little print statement
that says, I picked up an item.
[SOUND] Okay, so
I think that one was maybe
the most straightforward implementation.
Next will be a drop item.
So drop item, you can see my editor's
suggesting a functionality with
replace append with slices.delete,
which we were talking about,
that starting in Go 1.21,
there is the standard library that
now provides some packages that
help with slices and maps.
I think those are phenomenal, I think
those are great, they're very helpful.
But nothing wrong doing things kind
of under the hood, cuz I think
the slices.delete function does the exact
same as this append implementation here.
But basically, the secret, I guess,
of drop item is we iterate
through our inventory.
If we find the name, the item, and
in our inventory that matches
the item we are dropping,
we are basically going to create
a combination of our slices.
So here we are appending,
our p.Inventory up to i.
And i is the index of the item that
we found ranging over our inventory.
And then we are going to append it
to all the values after, so i+1.
So remember back when we
were exploring slices,
we had the ellipsis here that contains
all the values from another slice,
which is essentially
what we're doing here.
We're creating two slices
from our original slice, and
just append those together
to get this new slice,
this new inventory, and
then I have a return here.
And just for a safe catch,
if the value does not exist,
my inventory, I just quickly
say does not have in inventory.
So the name of the player, Milky, does
not have, let's say, ax in the inventory.
Okay, and then UseItem.
>> Melkey: This one, I think, is probably
the one that has the most room for debate,
I suppose, cuz lots of different ways I
was even talking to Michael just earlier.
And I didn't even consider
using the drop method or
drop item, I kind of just reimplemented
the same append functionality again.
But yeah,
I think the way I initially explained it,
to use an item,
I just range over that item again.
If I find it and I hard coded the name
potion and all I just say is I feel good,
I feel rejuvenated,
let me remove the item after use.
>> Speaker 2: So
with removing an item like this, I mean,
at first it would seem like this is
pretty heavy on allocating new memory
cuz it seems like you'd be wiping
away the old one while not wiping it.
Well yeah,
wiping it the way the old inventorian,
reallocating a new one,
is that what's happening under the hood?
>> Melkey: It's wiping out the old
memory and making a new one.
The context of the append method, again,
it depends on the capacity and
the length of the underlying array.
Because here, I think what you're
referencing is here we're basically taking
the existing one, splitting it up, adding
that, and here's a new inventory, right?
The thing is, if you look,
we're not explicitly
reinstantiating a new slice, right?
Here we have this inventory and
we're just reassigning it a value,
that's why there's single
equals operation here.
And so, what's happening is we
are actually reusing the length and
capacity of the original slice,
we're just replacing those values.
So we're not recreating the underlying
data structure, the slice or the array.
What we're doing is just
wiping out all the values.
But let's say this append method is,
every time we use it,
we're adding, I'm gonna say 20 or
100 new items.
That would be pretty inefficient,
because then, in that case, we would be
basically battling the doubling capacity
of the append method in Go under the hood.
Does that answer your question?
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: I think so.
>> Melkey: Cool.